# Zocial, a CSS3 social buttons Sass framework.

## Zocial is a CSS3 social buttons set and vector icons with @font-face as a Sass mixin and usable as a Compass extension.

HUGE thanks to [Sam Collins](http://twitter.com/smcllns) for all his hard work on the original CSS3 button set and the Zocial icons font! Without his work, this project would not exist.

This project comes with a free subset of that font set, and includes:

* Twitter
* Facebook
* Google+
* GitHub
* RSS
* Smashing Magazine
* and MANY more ...

## Installation

The first step is to install the Ruby gem. If you are not yet setup to work with Sass and Compass, please see the [getting started guide](http://thesassway.com/beginner/getting-started-with-sass-and-compass) at [The Sass Way](http://thesassway.com/).

    (sudo) gem install zocial

Next, we need to require Zocial in the Compass config file of your project.

    require 'zocial'

Next is a very crucial step ... getting the fonts installed to your project. This is the step you'll get hung up on if you didn't do the previous steps. Head back to the terminal and run this command from the root of the project you're installing Zocial to.

    # execute at the root of your project
    compass install zocial/fonts

You should see something like this:

    -> % compass install zocial/fonts
    directory fonts/zocial/ 
      create fonts/zocial/zocial-regular-webfont.eot
      create fonts/zocial/zocial-regular-webfont.svg
      create fonts/zocial/zocial-regular-webfont.ttf
      create fonts/zocial/zocial-regular-webfont.woff

Once you've done this, your project will be ready to use Zocial! The next step is to "mixin" Zocial which is covered in the usage section.

## Usage

Zocial has a few defaults in place that you can override for your project.

    // Defaults
    $zocial-font-size: 1.8em
    $zocial-font-weight: bold
    $zocial-icon-font: zocial
    $zocial-icon-default: "\0020"
    $zocial-text-font: helvetica
    
`$zocial-font-size` is set using ems and will vary in size based on your default font size.

`$zocial-icon-font` is set to "zocial" by default. In a previous version, there was a "lite" version of the font offered as open source, but now the full Zocial font is now included as open source and you can use all the buttons zocial has to offer.

`$zocial-icon-default` is set to an empty space by default. Feel free to update this if you plan to use a default button and want to set a default icon.

`$zocial-text-font` is set to "helvetica" by default, but can set to [any of the fonts](https://github.com/adamstac/zocial/blob/master/stylesheets/partials/_fonts.sass) defined. In a future release, we plan to work on adding better options for using other fonts. Please be patient.

### Mixins

Once you have Zocial's settings in place, it's time to mixin zocial. Zocial has two mixins, one for the free set (zocial-lite) and one for the full set (zocial-full) that can [purchased here](http://zocial.smcllns.com/).

To use the free set that comes with this project, use this mixin:

    // SCSS
    @include zocial;

    // Sass
    +zocial

## HTML Markup

Here's a snippet of example HTML markup in both HTML and Haml. The caveat or gotcha that most people stumble over is the required nested `<span>` element. As you can see, each Zocial button gets the required `.zocial` class name plus the button name.

    <button class="zocial twitter">
      <span>Sign in with Twitter</span>
    </button>
    <a class="zocial twitter" href="#">
      <span>Sign in with Twitter</span>
    </a>

    %button.zocial.twitter
      %span Sign in with Twitter
    %a(href="#" class="zocial twitter")
      %span Sign in with Twitter

To use just the icon version of the Zocial button, all you need to do is add the class name `.icon` to the above markup. Here's is the repeated code, but this time adding the `.icon` class.

    <button class="zocial icon twitter">
      <span>Sign in with Twitter</span>
    </button>
    <a class="zocial icon twitter" href="#">
      <span>Sign in with Twitter</span>
    </a>

    %button.zocial.icon.twitter
      %span Sign in with Twitter
    %a(href="#" class="zocial icon twitter")
      %span Sign in with Twitter

## Buttons classes

The examples shown above illustrate how to use the Twitter Zocial button. Below are the full class options for the named buttons.

* .twitter
* .facebook
* .googleplus
* .github
* .rss
* .smashingmag

## Font Family Choices

**Icon font:**

* zocial

**Text font:**

* helvetica
* arial (alias to helvetica)
* lucida-grande
* lucida (alias to lucida-grande)
* tahoma
* times
* georgia

## License

Copyright (c) 2011 [Sam Collins](http://smcllns.com/) ([@smcllns](http://twitter.com/smcllns)) and [Adam Stacoviak](http://adamstacoviak.com/) ([@adamstac](http://twitter.com/adamstac))

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.